Welcome, brothers and sisters.
In this program, we’re going to discuss
the joy of in-person conventions.
But first, here are a few updates.
After nearly 20 years,
on April 26, 2023,
the government of Spain
approved a historic adjustment
to the country’s tax exemption law.
This decision confirms
that Jehovah’s Witnesses
are a well-known and respected religion
in Spain.
In addition,
the adjustment exempts our brothers
from having to pay property tax
on theocratic facilities in the country.
It also allows individuals in Spain
who support the work
to obtain a tax deduction
on their contributions.
We’re very grateful
for this positive development.
Also, as reported on jw.org,
we’re very pleased that on May 16, 2023,
Brother Shamil Khakimov was released
from prison in Tajikistan
after fulfilling his prison sentence.
You might recall that he was first detained
in February 2019.
He spent over four years in prison
for his faith.
He plans to get some much-needed rest
and is being helped
to receive necessary medical care.
We’re very happy for you, Brother Khakimov!
Your faithful endurance encourages all of us.
Of course, we continue to keep close in mind
the over 180 brothers and sisters
who are still imprisoned for their faith.
The apostle Paul wrote at Philippians 1:14:
“Now most of the brothers in the Lord
have gained confidence
“because of my prison bonds,
“and they are showing all the more courage
to speak the word of God fearlessly.”
Just as first-century Christians
were encouraged by Paul’s faithful example,
the faith of those imprisoned in our day
impels us to share the Kingdom good news
with zeal.
But can such faithful ones in prison
be sure of Jehovah’s blessing and protection?
Isaiah’s prophecy highlights
what Jehovah promised
for his cleansed people.
Note Isaiah 4:5, 6.
It says: “Jehovah will also create
“over the whole site of Mount Zion
“and over the place of her conventions
“a cloud and smoke by day
“and a bright flaming fire by night;
“for over all the glory
there will be a shelter.
“And there will be a booth for shade
by day from the heat,
and for refuge and protection
from storms and the rain.”
These verses highlight
the spiritual protection
that Jehovah offered his servants in the past
and, by extension, to us today.
How so?
Verse 5 says that Jehovah will create
over his people “a cloud,” “smoke,”
and “a bright flaming fire.”
These remind us of how Jehovah cared
for the Israelites after they left Egypt.
He used a “pillar of fire and cloud”
to protect and to lead them.
No, Jehovah doesn’t promise us
miraculous physical protection;
nor does he prevent the heat of persecution
or storms of opposition
from bearing down on us.
But as verse 6 explains,
he does protect us spiritually,
as if building ‘a booth for shade
and for protection from the rainstorm.’
What’s the point?
Jehovah promises to be
with his faithful servants
wherever they are
—even if they’re boxed in
by four prison walls.
Jehovah is our Protector.
His holy spirit gives us joy and peace.
No human can tear down
‘the booth of protection’
that Jehovah builds.
As long as we maintain our integrity,
our future is secure.
Did you notice another place
where Jehovah’s cloud
of spiritual protection is?
Verse 5 says it would be
‘over the place
of his servants’ conventions.’
We’re very excited
that it’s convention season once again
—this time in person!
We’re eager to share
in the invitation campaign
and thrilled to be together
in person for conventions
for the first time since 2019.
Just last week, my wife and I received
a letter from a sister
who will soon be attending
the regional convention
and the Pioneer Service School.
She wrote:
“I usually wait to write to you
until after the events,
“but this year, I did not want to delay
in letting you know how happy,
“how excited, how spiritually blessed
I know we will be
“after each of these special occasions.
“How do I know it will be perfect,
“just what we need at each event?
“Because of the track record.
“Jehovah’s hand is not short.
“Not once have we
been disappointed or thinking,
“‘I wish for something else.’
Thank you.”
What an expression of faith!
This certainly is pleasing
to our heavenly Father, Jehovah,
and to his Son,
the head of the Christian congregation.
Over the years, convention arrangements
have been simplified
so that we can focus more
on the spiritual program.
For example, do you recall when meals
were served at our conventions?
Arrangements varied globally.
But no doubt you’ll enjoy this brief report
on how things were done
over the years in the United States.
In the United States, providing meals
for fellow convention attendees
extends all the way
back to the 1890’s.
However, the sheer magnitude of the task
took on new dimensions in the 1940’s
when the size of conventions grew.
Many volunteers were needed
to procure, receive, prepare, and serve
three hot meals a day to delegates.
An example of this was the eight-day
New World Society Assembly
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
held in Yankee Stadium in 1953.
Some 130,000 attended on average each day!
The cafeteria was operated
by 4,500 volunteers,
with the capacity to provide
30,000 meals per hour.
Although food service volunteers
were happy to work
in behalf of convention attendees,
they often worked many hours
and heard very little
or none of the program and often had
to attend a second convention to listen.
So in 1978,
food service operations
were simplified in many places.
Instead of a cafeteria meal,
refreshment stands
were used and featured a simplified menu.
This made it possible for the vast majority
of food service volunteers
to hear the spiritual program.
Further simplifications were made in 1987
when hot food items were no longer provided,
thus eliminating the need for natural gas,
oven trailers, and the like.
For decades, meal tickets
were available for purchase
and were exchanged for food items.
These tickets were designed
so that no change was needed,
thus expediting the purchase of food.
Here’s a sample menu.
The menu showed how many tickets
were required to purchase each item.
Finally, in 1995,
arrangements for food service
at conventions were discontinued.
Instead, delegates were encouraged
to bring their own food
and enjoy association on location
during the noon break.
As a result,
we no longer need to wait in line,
we have more time to spend
with friends on-site,
and this arrangement is easier
for our older and infirm ones.
We continue to benefit
from this simplified arrangement today.
So in order to enjoy association
during the noon break,
we encourage everyone to bring a light lunch,
which will also help us to stay awake
during the afternoon session.
As we return to in-person conventions,
perhaps we’ll feel like those
from Eastern Europe
who attended international conventions
in Poland in 1989.
That was the first convention ever
for most of those delegates,
although many had been in the truth
for 30 years or more.
One delegate
from the former Soviet Union said:
“For many years
we have been waiting for this day,
“and now we are here
at this international convention.
“We find it difficult to grasp
“all of this and take it all in.
“It is like a dream.
“It is impossible to express in words
everything we have seen and heard.
“When we saw the gigantic,
bowl-shaped stadium full of people
“and heard the music,
our eyes filled with tears.
“And the prayer
“—while all of us were motionlessly united—
“sent cold shivers down our backs.
“It was so solemn and unanimous.
“This convention in Warsaw is such a splendid
“and grand event
that only the new world will be better.
“We will always remember
these wonderful days.
“It is something one cannot forget.
“Special thanks and glory
be to our Creator, Jehovah God!”
The Awake!  of December 22, 1989, reported:
“The singing at the conventions
was noteworthy,
“as tens of thousands sang in unison
in over 20 different languages,
“all expressing the same thoughts
in a spirit of love and unity.”
As mentioned in the May broadcast,
we encourage you to learn
the new original song,
“It Will Not Be Late!”
During the pandemic,
we missed singing at large conventions.
This year, to quote Psalm 7:17,
we’ll again “sing praises to the name
of Jehovah the Most High”
at our conventions!
I still remember attending conventions in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, when I was a kid.
It was thrilling to hear Kingdom melodies
echoing in a large stadium
that had been converted
into a house of worship.
Many of you will remember this stirring
Kingdom melody from 1981.
Do you have similar  memories?
If you were baptized during the pandemic,
then this year’s convention
will likely be your first in person.
You too will form memories
that will last a lifetime.
That’s how many
of our brothers and sisters felt
when they recently attended
the “Exercise Patience”! Convention.
We’re here at the Newburgh, New York,
“Exercise Patience”! Convention.
This is my first convention
as a baptized Witness.
It’s a joy to be
with our family today and get
the spiritual food that we need.
It’s clear that Jehovah’s people
haven’t forgotten
how to laugh and hug each other
—love each other.
Being in person, being able
to really hear everybody sing together,
talking with everybody in person is—
You just can’t beat it.
The singing is beautiful.
When we were doing it on Zoom,
you didn’t hear the voices.
So to see all the voices singing together,
the harmony, is just—
You feel it more.
The theme “Exercise Patience!”
is a great theme
because that’s something
that we don’t have today in this world.
It seems like what’s presented matches
exactly what we’re dealing with
in our lives and what we see happening
in the world.
It’s phenomenal the way that you
could follow along
and how it makes the Bible
so much easier to understand.
All the videos and meeting new friends
and seeing even my old friends
that I haven’t seen in a while—
I love that you can sit and have a meal
with someone you’ve never met before
and you have something in common.
You can talk about the program,
and by the end
of the meal, you’ve become great friends.
To get our family ready for a convention
is a lot of work as a mom.
But conventions draw us closer as families
because we’re all
worshipping Jehovah together.
For someone who’s never been
to a convention before,
I’d tell them that the experience
is going to change their life.
They’re going to see and feel
a different type of love
that they probably never felt before.
Now being here together
and seeing them in person,
it’s a different feel.
It’s so beautiful.
You get together with so many people
—so loving.
It’s almost like a taste of the Paradise
right here, right now.
You are going to love this year’s convention!
Did any of the photos in our update
make you think about special conventions?
When are the next ones planned?
We’re pleased to inform you
that 15 special conventions
in countries around the world
are being planned for 2024!
The locations and dates
will be announced in the coming months.
So, what have we discussed in this update?
We’re reminded that Jehovah is our Protector.
But this doesn’t mean we’ll have
a problem-free life in this system of things.
However, when we face challenges,
we know that Jehovah is with us.
He protects us spiritually
and provides
“the power beyond what is normal”
so we can endure trials faithfully.
And we’re very excited for our
“Exercise Patience”! Regional Conventions!
May Jehovah bless the invitation campaign
and your efforts to attend
all three days in person!
As Paul wrote to Timothy
in his first letter, chapter 1, verse 2:
“May you have undeserved kindness
and mercy and peace
from God the Father
and Christ Jesus our Lord.”
We love you all very much!
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.